.TH "AUBIOCUT" "1" 
.SH "NAME" 
aubiocut \(em a command line tool to extract onsets and tempo from sound files. 
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
.PP 
\fBaubiocut \fB[options] \-i soundfile\fR\fR 
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
\fBaubiocut\fR attempts to detect onset times, the 
beginning of discreted sound events, or beat locations, in audio 
signals. 
.PP 
When using the \fB\-\-cut\fP option, 
\fBaubiocut\fR takes an input sound file and produce small 
files sliced at onset locations (or silences). The slices can then be sent 
for example to a player, a sequencer, or a sampler. 
.PP 
A plotting module is available via the Gnuplot Python package. 
.SH "OPTIONS" 
.PP 
This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long 
options starting with two dashes (`\-').  A summary of options is included 
below. 
.IP "\fB-i\fP   \fB\-\-input filein\fP" 10 
input sound file 
.IP "\fB-m\fP   \fB\-\-mode onset_detection_mode\fP" 10 
onset detection mode [default=dual] complexdomain|hfc|phase|specdiff|energy|kl|mkl|dual 
.IP "\fB-b\fP   \fB\-\-beat\fP" 10 
detect beats and output beat locations 
.IP "\fB-B\fP   \fB\-\-bufsize=BUFSIZE\fP" 10 
buffer size [default=512] 
.IP "\fB-H\fP   \fB\-\-hopsize=HOPSIZE\fP" 10 
overlap size [default=256] 
.IP "\fB-t\fP   \fB\-\-threshold=THRESHOLD\fP" 10 
onset peak picking threshold [default=0.3] 
.IP "\fB-C\fP   \fB\-\-dcthreshold=DCTHRESHOLD\fP" 10 
onset peak picking DC component [default=1.] 
.IP "\fB-s\fP   \fB\-\-silence=SILENCE\fP" 10 
silence threshold [default=\-70] 
.IP "\fB-M\fP   \fB\-\-mintol=MINIOI\fP" 10 
minimum inter onset interval [default=0.048s] 
.IP "\fB-D\fP   \fB\-\-delay=DELAY\fP" 10 
number of seconds to take back [default=system] 
default system delay is 3*hopsize/samplerate 
.IP "\fB-L\fP   \fB\-\-localmin\fP" 10 
use local minima after peak detection 
.IP "\fB-c\fP   \fB\-\-cut\fP" 10 
cut input sound file at detected labels (best used with option \-L) 
.IP "\fB-d\fP   \fB\-\-derivate\fP" 10 
derivate onset detection function 
.IP "\fB-S\fP   \fB\-\-silencecut\fP" 10 
outputs silence locations instead of onset locations 
.IP "\fB-z\fP   \fB\-\-zerocross=ZEROTHRES\fP" 10 
zero-crossing threshold for slicing [default=0.00008] 
.IP "\fB-f\fP   \fB\-\-function\fP" 10 
print detection function 
.IP "\fB-q\fP   \fB\-\-quiet\fP" 10 
be quiet 
.IP "\fB-h\fP   \fB\-\-help\fP" 10 
Show a summary of options. 
.IP "\fB-v\fP   \fB\-\-verbose\fP" 10 
make lots of noise [default] 
.SS "Plotting options" 
.PP 
When the Python interface to Gnuplot is installed, the following 
additional options are available. 
.IP "\fB-p\fP   \fB\-\-plot\fP" 10 
draw plot 
.IP "\fB-n\fP   \fB\-\-no-onsets\fP" 10 
do not plot detected onsets, only detection functions 
.IP "\fB-x\fP   \fB\-\-xsize=SIZE\fP" 10 
define horizontal plot size [default=1.] 
.IP "\fB-y\fP   \fB\-\-ysize=SIZE\fP" 10 
define vertical plot size [default=1.] 
.IP "\fB-O\fP   \fB\-\-outplot=OUTPLOT\fP" 10 
save plot to output.{ps,eps,png,svg} instead of displaying it 
.SH "BUGS" 
.PP 
For now the program has only been tested on audio signals sampled at 
44.1\ kHz. 
.SH "SEE ALSO" 
.PP 
\fBaubioonset\fR(1) 
\fBaubiotrack\fR(1) 
\fBaubionotes\fR(1) 
\fBaubiopitch\fR(1) 
 
.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP 
This manual page was written by Paul Brossier (piem@altern.org). Permission 
is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms 
of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 any later version published 
by the Free Software Foundation. 
.PP 
On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public 
License can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL. 
.\" created by instant / docbook-to-man, Sat 07 Oct 2006, 23:52 
