.TH "AUBIOPITCH" "1" 
.SH "NAME" 
aubiopitch \(em a command line tool to extract pitch candidates from sound files. 
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
.PP 
\fBaubiopitch \fB[options] \-i soundfile\fR\fR 
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
\fBaubiopitch\fR attempts to extract fundamental 
frequency in sound files. When no pitch candidate is found, the output is 
0. Five fundamental frequency extraction methods are available. Results can 
be printed in Hertz or in MIDI pitch. 
.PP 
A plotting module is available via the Gnuplot Python package. 
.SH "OPTIONS" 
.PP 
This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long 
options starting with two dashes (`\-').  A summary of options is included 
below. 
.IP "\fB-i\fP   \fB\-\-input filein\fP" 10 
input sound file 
.IP "\fB-m\fP   \fB\-\-mode pitch_detection_mode\fP" 10 
pitch detection mode [default=mcomb] mcomb|yin|fcomb|schmitt 
.IP "\fB-u\fP   \fB\-\-units unitmode\fP" 10 
output pitch in units [default=Hz] freq|midi|cent|bin 
.IP "\fB-B\fP   \fB\-\-bufsize=BUFSIZE\fP" 10 
buffer size [default=1024] 
.IP "\fB-H\fP   \fB\-\-hopsize=HOPSIZE\fP" 10 
overlap size [default=512] 
.IP "\fB-t\fP   \fB\-\-threshold=THRESHOLD\fP" 10 
pitch threshold (for yin) [default=0.1] 
.IP "\fB-s\fP   \fB\-\-silence=SILENCE\fP" 10 
silence threshold [default=\-70] 
.IP "\fB-D\fP   \fB\-\-delay=DELAY\fP" 10 
number of seconds to take back [default=0] 
.IP "\fB-S\fP   \fB\-\-smoothing=frames\fP" 10 
temporal smoothing using a median filter of N frames [default=0] 
.IP "\fB-M\fP   \fB\-\-pitchmax=max\fP" 10 
maximum pitch values to look for (Hz) [default=20000] 
.IP "\fB-l\fP   \fB\-\-pitchmin=min\fP" 10 
minimum pitch values to look for (Hz) [default=20] 
.IP "\fB-n\fP   \fB\-\-note\fP" 10 
NOT IMPLEMENTED output notes 
.IP "\fB-q\fP   \fB\-\-quiet\fP" 10 
be quiet 
.IP "\fB-h\fP   \fB\-\-help\fP" 10 
Show a summary of options. 
.IP "\fB-v\fP   \fB\-\-verbose\fP" 10 
make lots of noise [default] 
.SS "Plotting options" 
.PP 
When the Python interface to Gnuplot is installed, the following 
additional options are available. 
.IP "\fB-p\fP   \fB\-\-plot\fP" 10 
draw plot of the pitch track 
.IP "\fB-T\fP   \fB\-\-plottruth\fP" 10 
draw plot of the ground truth pitch track 
.IP "\fB-x\fP   \fB\-\-xsize=SIZE\fP" 10 
define horizontal plot size [default=1.] 
.IP "\fB-y\fP   \fB\-\-ysize=SIZE\fP" 10 
define vertical plot size [default=1.] 
.IP "\fB-O\fP   \fB\-\-outplot=OUTPLOT\fP" 10 
save plot to output.{ps,eps,png,svg} instead of displaying it 
.SH "BUGS" 
.PP 
For now the program has only been tested on audio signals sampled at 
44.1\ kHz. 
.SH "SEE ALSO" 
.PP 
\fBaubioonset\fR(1) 
\fBaubiotrack\fR(1) 
\fBaubionotes\fR(1) 
\fBaubiocut\fR(1) 
 
.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP 
This manual page was written by Paul Brossier (piem@altern.org). Permission 
is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms 
of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 any later version published 
by the Free Software Foundation. 
.PP 
On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public 
License can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL. 
.\" created by instant / docbook-to-man, Sat 07 Oct 2006, 23:52 
