.TH "AUBIONOTES" "1" 
.SH "NAME" 
aubionotes \(em a command line tool for real time extraction of musical notes. 
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
.PP 
\fBaubionotes \fB[options] [\-i soundfile]\fR\fR 
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
\fBaubionotes\fR attempts to detect notes in audio 
signals, segmenting consecutive events using onset detection, and 
determining their pitch using a fundamental frequency extraction algorithm. 
 
.PP 
When started without an input file argument 
(\fB\-\-input\fP), \fBaubionotes\fR creates a jack 
input and a MIDI output. When an input file is given, the results are given 
on the console. 
.SH "OPTIONS" 
.PP 
This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long 
options starting with two dashes (`\-').  A summary of options is included 
below. 
.IP "\fB-i\fP   \fB\-\-input filein\fP" 10 
Run analysis on this audio file. Most common uncompressed formats are 
supported. 
.IP "\fB-o\fP   \fB\-\-output fileout\fP" 10 
Save results in this file. The file will be created on the model of the 
input file. Results are marked by a short wood-block sample. 
.IP "\fB-P\fP   \fB\-\-pitch mode\fP" 10 
The pitch detection function to run. Available functions are 
\fIyinfft\fP, \fIyin\fP, 
\fImcomb\fP, \fIfcomb\fP, and 
\fIschmitt\fP. 
.IP "\fB-O\fP   \fB\-\-onset mode\fP" 10 
The onset detection function to run. Available functions are 
\fIcomplexdomain\fP, \fIhfc\fP, 
\fIphase\fP, \fIspecdiff\fP, 
\fIenergy\fP, \fIkl\fP and 
\fImkl\fP. By default, both Kullback Liebler (kl) and complex 
domain are used in parallel. 
.IP "\fB-t\fP   \fB\-\-threshold value\fP" 10 
Set the threshold value for the onset peak picking. Typical values are 
within \fB0.001\fP and \fB0.900\fP. Default is 
\fB0.1\fP. \fILower\fP threshold values imply  
\fImore\fP onsets detected. Try \fB0.3\fP in 
case of over-detections. 
.IP "\fB-j\fP   \fB\-\-jack\fP" 10 
Run in jack mode (default when started without input file) and creates a midi output. 
.IP "\fB-v\fP   \fB\-\-verbose\fP" 10 
Show results on the console (default). 
.IP "\fB-h\fP   \fB\-\-help\fP" 10 
Show summary of options. 
.SH "BUGS" 
.PP 
For now the program has only been tested on audio signals sampled at 
44.1\ kHz. 
.SH "SEE ALSO" 
.PP 
\fBaubioonset\fR(1) 
\fBaubiotrack\fR(1) 
\fBaubiocut\fR(1) 
\fBaubiopitch\fR(1) 
 
.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP 
This manual page was written by Paul Brossier (piem@altern.org). Permission 
is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms 
of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 any later version published 
by the Free Software Foundation. 
.PP 
On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public 
License can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL. 
.\" created by instant / docbook-to-man, Sat 07 Oct 2006, 23:51 
